Forward-Looking Statements
This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All
statements other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding guidance, industry prospects, or future results of operations or financial
position, made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are forward-looking. We use words such as anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends, and similar
expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management’s current expectations and are inherently uncertain.
Actual results could differ materially for a variety of reasons, including, among others, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic
conditions and customer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet and online commerce, the amount that Amazon.com invests in new
business opportunities and the timing of those investments, the mix of products sold to customers, the mix of net sales derived from products as compared
with services, the extent to which we owe income taxes, competition, management of growth, potential fluctuations in operating results, international growth
and expansion, the outcomes of legal proceedings and claims, fulfillment, sortation, delivery, and data center optimization, risks of inventory management,
seasonality, the degree to which we enter into, maintain, and develop commercial agreements, acquisitions and strategic transactions, payments risks, and
risks of fulfillment throughput and productivity. In addition, the current global economic climate amplifies many of these risks. These risks and uncertainties,
as well as other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ significantly from management’s expectations, are described in greater
detail in Item 1A of Part I, “Risk Factors.”
Overview
Our primary source of revenue is the sale of a wide range of products and services to customers. The products offered on our consumer-facing websites
primarily include merchandise and content we have purchased for resale from vendors and those offered by third-party sellers, and we also manufacture and
sell electronic devices. Generally, we recognize gross revenue from items we sell from our inventory as product sales and recognize our net share of revenue
of items sold by third-party sellers as service sales. We also offer other services such as compute, storage, and database offerings, fulfillment, publishing,
digital content subscriptions, advertising, and co-branded credit cards.
Our financial focus is on long-term, sustainable growth in free cash flows1 per share. Free cash flows are driven primarily by increasing operating
income and efficiently managing working capital2 and cash capital expenditures, including our decision to purchase or lease property and equipment.
Increases in operating income primarily result from increases in sales of products and services and efficiently managing our operating costs, partially offset by
investments we make in longer-term strategic initiatives. To increase sales of products and services, we focus on improving all aspects of the customer
experience, including lowering prices, improving availability, offering faster delivery and performance times, increasing selection, increasing product
categories and service offerings, expanding product information, improving ease of use, improving reliability, and earning customer trust. We also seek to
efficiently manage shareholder dilution while maintaining the flexibility to issue shares for strategic purposes, such as financings, acquisitions, and aligning
employee compensation with shareholders’ interests. We utilize restricted stock units as our primary vehicle for equity compensation because we believe this
compensation model aligns the long-term interests of our shareholders and employees. In measuring shareholder dilution, we include all vested and unvested
stock awards outstanding, without regard to estimated forfeitures. Total shares outstanding plus outstanding stock awards were 490 million and 483 million
as of December 31, 2015 and 2014.
We seek to reduce our variable costs per unit and work to leverage our fixed costs. Our variable costs include product and content costs, payment
processing and related transaction costs, picking, packaging, and preparing orders for shipment, transportation, customer service support, costs necessary to
run AWS, and a portion of our marketing costs. Our fixed costs include the costs necessary to run our technology infrastructure; to build, enhance, and add
features to our websites and web services, our electronic devices, and digital offerings; and to build and optimize our fulfillment centers. Variable costs
generally change directly with sales volume, while fixed costs generally are dependent on the timing of capacity needs, geographic expansion, category
expansion, and other factors. To decrease our variable costs on a per unit basis and enable us to lower prices for customers, we seek to increase our direct
sourcing, increase discounts from suppliers, and reduce defects in our processes. To minimize growth in fixed costs, we seek to improve process efficiencies
and maintain a lean culture.
_______________________
(1) See “Results of Operations—Non-GAAP Financial Measures” below for additional information on our non-GAAP free cash flows financial measures.
(2) Working capital consists of accounts receivable, inventory, and accounts payable.
18
Table of Contents
Because of our model we are able to turn our inventory quickly and have a cash-generating operating cycle3. On average, our high inventory velocity
means we generally collect from consumers before our payments to suppliers come due. Inventory turnover4 was 8 for 2015 and 9 for 2014 and 2013. We
expect variability in inventory turnover over time since it is affected by several factors, including our product mix, the mix of sales by us and by third-party
sellers, our continuing focus on in-stock inventory availability and selection of product offerings, our investment in new geographies and product lines, and
the extent to which we choose to utilize third-party fulfillment providers. Accounts payable days5 were 77, 73, and 74 for 2015, 2014, and 2013. We expect
some variability in accounts payable days over time since they are affected by several factors, including the mix of product sales, the mix of sales by thirdparty
sellers, the mix of suppliers, seasonality, and changes in payment terms over time, including the effect of balancing pricing and timing of payment
terms with suppliers.
We expect spending in technology and content will increase over time as we add computer scientists, designers, software and hardware engineers, and
merchandising employees. Our technology and content investment and capital spending projects often support a variety of product and service offerings
due to geographic expansion and the cross-functionality of our systems and operations. We seek to invest efficiently in several areas of technology and
content, including AWS, and expansion of new and existing product categories and service offerings, as well as in technology infrastructure to enhance the
customer experience and improve our process efficiencies. We believe that advances in technology, specifically the speed and reduced cost of processing
power and the advances of wireless connectivity, will continue to improve the consumer experience on the Internet and increase its ubiquity in people’s
lives. To best take advantage of these continued advances in technology, we are investing in initiatives to build and deploy innovative and efficient software
and electronic devices. We are also investing in AWS, which offers a broad set of global compute, storage, database, and other service offerings to developers
and enterprises of all sizes.
Our financial reporting currency is the U.S. Dollar and changes in foreign exchange rates significantly affect our reported results and consolidated
trends. For example, if the U.S. Dollar weakens year-over-year relative to currencies in our international locations, our consolidated net sales and operating
expenses will be higher than if currencies had remained constant. Likewise, if the U.S. Dollar strengthens year-over-year relative to currencies in our
international locations, our consolidated net sales and operating expenses will be lower than if currencies had remained constant. We believe that our
increasing diversification beyond the U.S. economy through our growing international businesses benefits our shareholders over the long-term. We also
believe it is useful to evaluate our operating results and growth rates before and after the effect of currency changes.
In addition, the remeasurement of our intercompany balances can result in significant gains and charges associated with the effect of movements in
foreign currency exchange rates. Currency volatilities may continue, which may significantly impact (either positively or negatively) our reported results and
consolidated trends and comparisons.
For additional information about each line item summarized above, refer to Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1—
Description of Business and Accounting Policies.”