Consolidated revenues for 2015 and 2014 increased as compared to prior years due to growth in global streaming average paying memberships, the majority
of which was growth in our international memberships reflecting our expansion and focus on Netflix as a global Internet TV network. For the year ended
December 31, 2015, the impact from membership growth was slightly offset by a decrease in average monthly revenue per paying streaming membership resulting
from unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations impacting our International streaming segment. This was partially offset by increases resulting from price changes
and plan mix. The decrease in operating income for the year ended December 31, 2015 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 is due primarily to
increased marketing and headcount costs to support our international expansion in addition to increased content expenses as we continue to acquire, license and
produce content, including more Netflix originals. Net income is further impacted by the increase in interest expense associated with our debt issuance in the first
quarter of 2015 as well as to an increase in losses on foreign currency denominated transactions.
We offer three types of streaming membership plans. In the U.S. our basic plan is priced at $7.99 per month and includes access to standard definition quality
streaming on a single screen at a time. Our most popular streaming plan is priced at $9.99 per month and includes access to high definition quality streaming on
two screens concurrently. Our premium plan is priced at $11.99 per month and includes access to high definition and ultra-high definition quality content on four
screens concurrently. Internationally, the membership plans are structured similarly to the U.S. and range in price from the U.S. dollar equivalent of approximately
$5.00 to $18.00 per month.
We expect that from time to time the prices of our membership plans in each country may change. For instance, in the second half of 2015, we increased the
price of our two-screen high definition plan in the U.S. and several European countries. In May 2014, in the U.S., we increased the price of our high definition plan
from $7.99 per month to $8.99 per month with existing memberships grandfathered for a two year period. In October 2015, in the U.S., we increased the price of
this same high definition plan from $8.99 per month to $9.99 per month with existing memberships grandfathered for a one year period. In 2016, the grandfathered
pricing period will expire for a substantial number of U.S. memberships and the members will have the option of electing the basic streaming plan at $7.99 or
continuing on the high definition plan at the higher price of $9.99.
The following represents the key elements to our segment results of operations:
• We define contribution profit (loss) as revenues less cost of revenues and marketing expenses incurred by the segment. We believe this is an important
measure of our operating segment performance as it represents each segment's performance before global corporate costs.
• For the Domestic and International streaming segments, content expenses, which include the amortization of the streaming content assets and other
expenses associated with the licensing and acquisition of streaming content, represent the vast majority of cost of revenues. Streaming content rights were
generally obtained for our current geographic regions. As we expanded internationally, we obtained additional rights for the new geographies. With our
global expansion, we now aspire to obtain global rights for our new content. We allocate this content between the Domestic and International segments
based on estimated fair market value. Other cost of revenues such as streaming delivery expenses, customer service and payment processing fees,
including those we pay to our integrated payment partners, tend to be lower as a percentage of total cost of revenues as compared to content licensing
expenses. We have built our
17
Table of Contents
own global content delivery network ("Open Connect") to help us efficiently stream a high volume of content to our members over the Internet.
Streaming delivery expenses, therefore, also include equipment costs related to our content delivery network and all third-party costs, such as cloud
computing costs, associated with delivering streaming content over the Internet. Cost of revenues in the Domestic DVD segment consist primarily of
delivery expenses, content expenses, including amortization of DVD content assets and revenue sharing expenses, and other expenses associated with our
DVD processing and customer service centers. Delivery expenses for the Domestic DVD segment consist of the postage costs to mail DVDs to and from
our members and the packaging and label costs for the mailers.
• For the Domestic and International streaming segments, marketing expenses consist primarily of advertising expenses and payments made to our affiliates
and device partners. Advertising expenses include promotional activities such as digital and television advertising. Payments to our affiliates and device
partners include fixed fee and /or revenue sharing payments. Marketing expenses are incurred by our Domestic and International streaming segments
given our focus on building consumer awareness of the streaming offerings and in particular our original content. Marketing expenses incurred by our
International streaming segment have been significant and fluctuate dependent upon the number of international territories in which our streaming service
is offered and the timing of the launch of new territories. We do not incur marketing expenses for the Domestic DVD segment.
• We have demonstrated our ability to grow domestic streaming contribution margin as evidenced by the increase in contribution margin from 17% in 2012
to 33% in 2015. As a result of our focus on growing the streaming segments, contribution margins for the Domestic and International streaming segments
are lower than for our Domestic DVD segment.
18
Table of Contents
Segment Results
Domestic Streaming Segment
In the Domestic streaming segment, we derive revenues from monthly membership fees for services consisting solely of streaming content to our members in
the United States. Our two screen high definition plan continues to be the most popular plan choice for new memberships. The increase in our domestic streaming
revenues was due to a 17% growth in the average number of paid memberships and a 4% increase in average monthly revenue per paying membership resulting
from our price changes and plan mix.
The increase in domestic streaming cost of revenues was primarily due to a $208.1 million increase in content expenses relating to our existing and new
streaming content, including more exclusive and original programming. In addition, we had a $37.9 million increase in streaming delivery expenses and a $39.4
million increase in other costs, such as payment processing fees and customer service call centers, due to our growing member base.
Domestic marketing expenses increased primarily due to an increase in advertising and public relations spending.
Our Domestic streaming segment had a contribution margin of 33% for the year ended December 31, 2015, which increased as compared to the contribution
margin of 27% for the year ended December 31, 2014 due to growth in paid memberships and revenue, which continued to outpace content and marketing
spending. Our 2020 domestic streaming contribution margin target remains at 40%.
Year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2013
The increase in our domestic streaming revenues was due to the 22% growth in the average number of paid memberships, as well as to the 2% increase in
average monthly revenue per paying membership resulting from our price increase for new members in the second quarter of 2014 and introduction of the higher
priced plan in 2013.
The increase in domestic streaming cost of revenues was primarily due to the $242.3 million increase in content expenses relating to our existing and new
streaming content, including more exclusive and original programming. In addition, streaming delivery expenses increased by $59.5 million and other costs, such
as payment processing fees and customer service call centers, increased $36.6 million due to our growing member base.
Domestic marketing expenses increased primarily due to an increase in advertising and public relations spending.
Our Domestic streaming segment had a contribution margin of 27% for the year ended December 31, 2014, which increased as compared to the contribution
margin of 23% for the year ended December 31, 2013 due to growth in paid memberships and revenue, which continued to outpace content and marketing
spending.
In the International streaming segment, we derive revenues from monthly membership fees for services consisting solely of streaming content to our
members outside the United States. We launched our streaming service in Canada in September 2010 and have continuously expanded our services internationally
as shown below. In January 2016 we announced the availability of our streaming service virtually everywhere in the world, with the exception of The People's
Republic of China and territories where U.S. companies are not allowed to operate.
The increase in our international revenues was due to the 66% growth in the average number of paid international memberships offset partially by
a 10% decrease in average monthly revenue per paying membership. The decrease in average monthly revenue per paying membership was due to the impact of
exchange rate fluctuations and to a lesser extent the impact of absorbing higher VAT rates across our European markets beginning January 1, 2015. These
decreases were partially offset by our pricing changes and plan mix. We believe international revenues would have been approximately $331 million higher in
2015 if foreign exchange rates had remained consistent with those for the year ended December 31, 2014.
The increase in international cost of revenues was primarily due to a $522.1 million increase in content expenses primarily relating to expenses for territories
launched in the last eighteen months, coupled with existing and new streaming content, including more exclusive and original programming. Other costs increased
$104.2 million primarily due to increases in our streaming delivery expenses, costs associated with our customer service call centers and payment processing fees,
all driven by our growing member base, partially offset by decreases resulting from exchange rate fluctuations. Average paid international streaming memberships
accounted for 35% of total average paid streaming memberships as of December 31, 2015, as compared to 27% of total average paid streaming memberships as of
December 31, 2014.
International marketing expenses for the year ended December 31, 2015 increased as compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 mainly due to expenses
for territories launched in the last eighteen months.
International contribution losses increased $173.6 million year over year due to our increased spending for our international expansion and the impact of
foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.
Year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2013
The increase in our international revenues was primarily due to the 82% growth in the average number of paid international memberships as well as the 1%
increase in average monthly revenue per paying member resulting from the price increase on our most popular streaming plan and the introduction of the premium
plan, offset partially by the impact of exchange rate fluctuations. Average paid international streaming memberships accounted for 27% of total average paid
streaming memberships as of December 31, 2014, as compared to 20% of total average paid streaming memberships as of December 31, 2013.
The increase in international cost of revenues was primarily due to a $311.5 million increase in content expenses including content for our new markets as
well as more exclusive and original programming. Other costs increased $60.3 million primarily due to increases in our streaming delivery expenses, costs
associated with our customer service call centers and payment processing fees, all driven by our growing member base.
International marketing expenses for the year ended December 31, 2014 increased as compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 mainly due to expenses
for territories launched during 2014.
International contribution losses improved $114.5 million year over year, as a result of growing memberships and revenues faster than content and marketing
spending.
In the Domestic DVD segment, we derive revenues from our DVD-by-mail membership services. The price per plan for DVD-by-mail varies from $4.99 to
$15.99 per month according to the plan chosen by the member. DVD-by-mail plans differ by the number of DVDs that a member may have out at any given point.
Members electing access to high definition Blu-ray discs, in addition to standard definition DVDs, pay a surcharge ranging from $2 to $4 per month for our most
popular plans.
The decrease in our domestic DVD revenues was due to a 16% decrease in the average number of paid memberships.
The decrease in domestic DVD cost of revenues was primarily due to a $21.0 million decrease in content expenses and a $38.9 million decrease in delivery
expenses resulting from a 21% decrease in the number of DVDs mailed to members. The decrease in shipments was driven by a decline in the number of DVD
memberships coupled with a decrease in usage by these members. Other costs, primarily those associated with processing and customer service expenses,
decreased $13.1 million primarily due to a decrease in hub operation expenses resulting from the decline in DVD shipments
Our Domestic DVD segment had a contribution margin of 50% for the year ended December 31, 2015, up from 48% for the year ended December 31, 2014
due to the decrease in DVD usage by paying members.
Year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2013
The decrease in our domestic DVD revenues was due to a 16% decrease in the average number of paid memberships.
The decrease in domestic DVD cost of revenues was primarily due to a $16.0 million decrease in content expenses and a $43.0 million decrease in delivery
expenses resulting from a 22% decrease in the number of DVDs mailed to members. The decrease in shipments was driven by a decline in the number of DVD
memberships coupled with a decrease in usage by these members. Other costs, primarily those associated with processing and customer service expenses,
decreased $15.6 million primarily due to a decrease in hub operation expenses resulting from the decline in DVD shipments.
Our Domestic DVD segment had a contribution margin of 48% for the year ended December 31, 2014, and was relatively flat as compared to the year ended
December 31, 2013.