Overview and 2015 Highlights

We design, develop, manufacture, and sell high-performance fully electric vehicles, and energy storage products. We are currently producing and selling our Model S sedan and our Model X sport utility vehicle. Since the introduction of Model S in June 2012, we have enhanced our vehicle offerings with all-wheel drive capability, autopilot options, and free over-the-air software updates.  We commenced customer deliveries of our Model X in September 2015 and are currently ramping production. We have delivered over 107,000 vehicles through December 31, 2015.  We intend to unveil Model 3, a lower priced sedan designed for the mass market, in the first quarter of 2016 and expect to commence production and deliveries of this vehicle in late 2017.

In addition to our automotive products, we recently announced the next generation of our energy storage products, the 7 kWh and 10 kWh Powerwall for residential applications and the 100 kWh Powerpack for commercial and industrial applications.  We began production and deliveries of these products, which we will sell under the Tesla Energy brand, in the third quarter of 2015.   We transitioned the production of these products from the Fremont Factory to the Gigafactory during Q4 2015.

Our primary source of revenue is from the sale of our vehicles. During the year ended December 31, 2015, we recognized total revenues of $4.05 billion, an increase of $847.7 million over total revenues of $3.20 billion for the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily driven by growth of Model S deliveries worldwide. Gross margin for the year ended December 31, 2015 was 22.8%, a decrease from 27.6% for the year ended December 31, 2014.
We continue to increase our sales and service footprint worldwide and expand our Supercharging and destination charging networks. With the continued global expansion of our customer support and Supercharger infrastructure, selling, general and administrative expenses were $922.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to $603.7 million for the year ended December 30, 2014.
 
 
Management Opportunities, Challenges and Risks
Vehicle Orders, Production and Deliveries

We are currently producing and selling both the Model S sedan and the Model X sport utility vehicle. We have broadened the appeal of Model S by introducing new variants that improve range, performance, and value.  For those wanting a more affordable car, we introduced Model S 70 with a starting price of only $70,000 before incentives and fuel savings.  Our new 90kWh battery pack option enables almost 300 miles of range at 65 mph.  Finally, for our performance enthusiasts, the new Ludicrous mode option improves 0 to 60 mph acceleration to 2.8 seconds. The introduction of Model X now provides customers with a performance electric vehicle option in the sport utility segment for the first time. Similar to Model S, we expect to introduce new versions and functionality for the Model X over time.  Overall, we expect that demand for our vehicles will continue to increase worldwide as more people drive and become aware of our vehicles, as we grow our customer sales and service infrastructure, and as we continue to develop our products.
We have been increasing our production activities and expect to continue to do so.  In August 2014, we began a significant production capacity increase at the Tesla Factory by transitioning to our new final assembly line and upgrading our body center. These production capacity increases continued into 2015, with further investments including building a new paint shop, a new body shop for Model X, and additional stamping capacity. We expect our annual production will increase considerably each year for the next several years. In addition, scaling our deliveries means that we will have an increasing number of cars in-transit, therefore production will exceed deliveries.  

During 2015, we achieved significant efficiencies in Model S production and produced 14,037 vehicles in the fourth quarter of 2015. We began production of Model X in the third quarter of 2015. We plan to deliver 80,000 to 90,000 new Model S and Model X vehicles in 2016.

In addition to expanding our vehicle production, we expect to continue to lower the cost of manufacturing our vehicles over the next several quarters. We expect that this trend will contribute to improved au tomotive gross margin over time, excluding the impact of foreign currency movements. Significant cost improvements for Model S were achieved in 2014 and 2015 relating to material cost reductions from both engineering and commercial actions, and manufacturing efficiencies, excluding the impact of newly introduced Model S variants and Model X. However, during our product introductions over the last few years, we incurred ma nufacturing inefficiencies which negatively impacted our gross margin. We expect that automotive gross margin should increase during 2016 due to cost reductions for Model S and improving margin on Model X as our manufacturing effici ency improves for that v ehicle, supporting our plan to be profitable for the fourth quarter of 2016. I f we are not able to achieve the planned cost reductions from our various cost savings and process improvement initiatives or ramp Model X efficiently, our ability to reach our g ross margin goals would be negatively affected in the short-term.

To support our planned vehicle growth in 2016, we plan to continue expanding stores and service infrastructure worldwide, provide more timely service in areas with a high concentration of Tesla customers, and continue expanding our Supercharger and destination charger network. Since we now offer our vehicles in many countries throughout North America, Europe and Asia, our expansion will primarily occur in geographic areas in which we already have a presence. We expect our long-term sales outside of North America will be almost half of our worldwide automotive revenue. As compared to markets in the United States, we have relatively limited experience in international markets, and thus we may face difficulties meeting our future international expansion plans. If we experience unexpected difficulties or delays in finding and opening desirable locations for stores and service centers, we may not be able to meet our delivery plans.
Trends in Cash Flow, Capital Expenditures and Operating Expenses

We expect to see a net increase in cash and cash equivalents for the full-year 2016. We plan to fund about $1.5 billion in capital expenditures without accessing any outside capital other than our existing sources that support our leasing and finished goods inventory. We plan to invest in equipment to support cell production at the Gigafactory, begin installation of Model 3 vehicle production machinery, open about 80 retail locations and service centers, and energize about 300 new Supercharger locations.

Our operating expenses are expected to grow by about 20% in 2016 as compared to 2015, driven primarily by the expansion of our retail and service centers as well as increases in general and administrative costs to support the growth of the business. We expect sales, general and administrative expenses to decline over time as a percentage of revenue as we focus on increasing operational efficiency while continuing to expand our customer and corporate infrastructure. Over time, we also expect total operating expenses to decrease as a percentage of revenue.
As of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, the net book value of our Supercharger network was $339.2 million and $107.8 million and as of December 31, 2015 included 584 locations globally. We plan to continue investing in our Supercharger network for the foreseeable future, including in North America, Europe and Asia and expect such spending to be a minimal portion of total capital spending during 2016. During 2016, this investment will grow our Supercharger network by about 50%. We allocate Supercharger related expenses to cost of automotive revenues and selling, general, and administrative expenses. These costs were immaterial for all periods presented.
Customer Financing Options

We offer loans and leases in North America, Europe and Asia primarily through various financial institutions. We offer a resale value guarantee in connection with certain loans offered by financial institutions and as of December 31, 2015 had approximately 18,400 vehicles under this program. We expanded this program to selected European and Asian markets during the first half of 2015. Resale value guarantees available for exercise within the next 12 months total $136.8 million in value and relate to 3,017 vehicles.
Vehicle deliveries with the resale value guarantee do not impact our near-term cash flows and liquidity, since we receive the full amount of cash for the vehicle sales price at delivery. However, this program requires the deferral of revenues and costs into future periods as they are considered leases for accounting purposes.

While we do not assume any credit risk related to the customer, if a customer exercises the option to return the vehicle to us, we are exposed to liquidity risk that the resale value of vehicles under these programs may be lower than our guarantee, or the volume of vehicles returned to us may be higher than our estimates, or we may be unable to resell the used cars in a timely manner, all of which could adversely impact our cash flows. Alternatively, in cases where customers retain their vehicles past the expiration of the guarantee period, the remaining deferred revenues and costs will be recognized at no gross profit.

Based on current market demand for our cars, we estimate the resale prices for our vehicles will continue to be above our resale value guarantee amounts. Should market values of our vehicles or customer demand decrease, these estimates may be impacted materially.

We currently offer leases in the U. S. directly from our captive financing entity, as well as through a leasing partner. Leasing through Tesl a Finance is now available in 39 states and the District of Columbia. We also offer financing arrangements through e ntities in Canada, Germany and UK.   As of December 3 1 , 2015, we ha d leased approximately 3,660 vehicles throu gh our captive financing entities in the U.S. and Germany and approximately 6,73 0 vehicles through our leasing partner. Le asing through both our captive financing entities and our leasing partner exposes us to residual value risk and will adversely impact our near-term operating results by requiring the deferral of revenues and costs into future periods under lease accounting. In addition, for leases offered directly from our captive financing entities (but not for those offered through our bank partner), we will not receive the full amount of the cash for the vehicle price at delivery and will assume customer credit risk. We plan to continue expand ing our leasing offerings.

The Gigafactory

We are developing the Gigafactory as a facility where we work together with our suppliers to integrate production of battery material, cells, modules and battery packs in one location. We broke ground on the Gigafactory in June 2014 and began assembling our Tesla Energy products in the first portion of the facility in the fourth quarter of 2015.  We currently expect to produce cells at this site beginning in 2016 for use initially in our Tesla Energy products and later for our vehicles. Over the next few years, we will continue to invest in the expansion of additional Tesla Energy production capacity.  

We continue to invest in construction of the building and utilities at the Gigafactory and in production equipment for battery, module and pack production. We will be responsible for the overall management of the Gigafactory and will engage with partners who have significant experience in battery cell and material production. Panasonic has agreed to partner with us on the Gigafactory with investments in production equipment that it will use to manufacture and supply us with battery cells. Under our arrangement with Panasonic, we plan to purchase the full output from their production equipment at negotiated prices.  As these terms convey a right to use the production related assets as defined within ASC 840 – Leases , we will consider these leased assets beginning with the start of cell production in 2016.

Given the size and complexity of this undertaking, the cost of building and operating the Gigafactory could exceed our current expectations, we may have difficulty signing up additional partners, and the Gigafactory may take longer to bring online than we anticipate